---
layout: post
title:  Syllabus Review
---

Keeping my student life well organised has been a major part of my life this
year, especially as my workload for University (college to all you US folk) has
increased. I was delighted to hear of an application designed specifically to
help students with this task. Syllabus aims to help students stay organised, by
collecting functionality that was spread over several apps into one.

The major plus point for Syllabus (for non-techie students) is that it hides
away the filesystem completely. You can just import your files (probably from
the downloads folder, as you download them), and Syllabus will keep everything
nicely organised. Most users are distinctly scared of the filesystem, and most
of the iLife apps already abstract it away from the user. However, for a techie
like myself, this doesn't offer much of an advantage compared using the
filesystem, which I already had organised how I wanted it.

This hits on my big problem with Syllabus, for students who are already well
organised (probably using iCal and the filesystem), Syllabus offers almost
nothing. Furthermore, the time it takes to get data into the app means that
it's pretty pointless for many students.

Syllabus is interesting conceptually, because it tries to do for student
organisation what [Coda](http://daringfireball.net/2007/04/coda) does for web
development. That is, turn what used to be a many app task (keeping my student
work organised) into a one window task. Many things Syllabus does are handled
well by iCal (keeping track of dates), and the Finder/Spotlight (keeping track
of files).

The main problem here is that organisation is a very disparate task. Keeping
track of professors' emails for example, is completely separate to keeping
track assignment hand in date. Unlike Coda, there is little benefit to moving
these two tasks into one app, as they simply have little relevance to each
other. Furthermore, because Syllabus does all these separate things, the UI for
each task feels unpolished compared to apps that already accomplish that task.
A particular example that springs to mind is entering dates in Syllabus
compared to iCal (or its bigger brother, [BusyCal](http://www.busymac.com/)).

The UI for entering dates being unpolished is a particular problem, because a
lot of my usage of Syllabus so far has been entering dates (for lecture times,
assignment due in dates, professor office hours and term dates). Another
date-related complaint is that the at-a-glance view, which is a very simple
outline of what is coming up in the next week, is nowhere near as good as
iCal's week view. This is especially pertinent because of Syllabus' syncing
with iCal (which works very well), as you can get the iCal view for your
student work (that you entered using syllabus) by selecting the Syllabus
calendar.

![At a glance window](http://www.randomaccident.com/products/syllabus/syllabus/ataglance_files/stacks_image_51_1.png)

The final lacking thing from Syllabus is any sort of search functionality.
Particularly for students with many links/files, it seems far more sensible to
keep them in a known folder/browser bookmarks (where you can search them
properly, etc) than to put the in Syllabus.

Overall, I love the idea of the app. Keeping student things organised is
definitely an important task. However, the execution is somewhat lacking,
having many disparate tasks with little integration between them doesn't work
well for a single app. Many tasks that Syllabus accomplishes are already
covered by iLife, and done better there.
